Another way to get system data in CircleCI is to use environment variables.
Those environment variables can be defined by us or built into CircleCI.
All environment variables are bound to a scope.
Let's take a look at some scopes in CircleCI.
Organizations contain projects, so environment variables
set at this level will be available to all child projects.
This is great for organization-wide secrets like API keys.
Projects contain pipeline jobs,
so environment variables at the project level are available to all jobs in the project,
but are not to jobs that belong to other projects.
An example of a project level,
environment variable might be the base URL for
a back-end API that is needed by any front-end related jobs.
There are several built-in environment variables at the pipeline scope,
and are available to all the jobs contained in the pipeline.
We'll take a look at a few of those in a moment.
Environment variables that are set inside the job are only available to that job.
You can either set environment variables using
the environment map or by just exporting them using the shell commands.
This is useful when you're using a tool that expects a certain value in the environment,
but it doesn't apply anywhere else.
You can even define environment variables in a step using export,
but really those variables are still available at the job level.
There are a handful of others that might come in handy someday,
but I'll let you discover those in the docs.
As promised, let's take a look at a few of
the built-in environment variables that are available in our pipeline jobs.
These can be used almost anywhere in the context of our pipeline.
For example, docker images, shell scripts,
job definitions, commands, aliases, and the list goes on.
CircleCI offers quite a few variables.
Again, here's the documentation for CircleCI.
We're looking at the built-in environment variable section.
It's a very long list.
I don't want to go through every single one and bore you to death.
But I do want to highlight a few of these variables that we can use.
I mentioned to you before with the pipeline values
that we can get the Git branch information, well,
we can also get it with environment variables,
and these are even a little bit more flexible because we can
use these outside of the context of a job.
Circle_Branch is going to give us the actual name of the branch that we're working in,
so you can use that in pretty much anything inside of the job,
in shell scripts or even in your application.
Also, we have the circle_build_number,
which is just an auto-incrementing integer that goes up every time we run another built.
We also have the Circle_PR_Number,
which references the pull request for GitHub or Bitbucket.
We've got the Circle_Workflow_ID down here,
which is a unique ID that is generated
every time we start a new workflow or a new pipeline,
and that's very useful when we want to name
things in a certain way that somehow links
them or makes them referenceable by other jobs.
As you can see, this list is very
comprehensive and it has great descriptions for each one of these things.
You may find some of these that I haven't mentioned still useful and that's great.
All of these are at your disposal and they're right here in the documentation.